[Docs] Add and improve new api docs (#12599)
Sylius/Sylius: docs/customization/api.rst

Customizing API
===============

> For create all endpoints in Sylius API we are using the API Platform.

Reviewer: `We are using...` +1

> API Platform allows to configure endpoint by ``yaml`` and ``xml`` files or in ``annotations``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API Platform allows configuring an endpoint by ``yaml`` and ``xml`` files or by annotations.
```

> In these guide we will show you how to customize Sylius API endpoint with ``xml``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In these guide we will show you how to customize Sylius API endpoint using ``xml`` configuration.
```

wdyt?

> In these guide we will show you how to customize Sylius API endpoint with ``xml``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, you will learn how to customize Sylius API endpoints using ``xml``.
```

> How to prepare project to customization?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
How to prepare project for customization?
```

========================================

> For any kind of customization firstly you need to configure location of your configs.

Reviewer 2: I would change `location` for `path` or `directory`. Location seems more suitable for navigation 😄

.. code-block:: yaml
    # config/packages/api_platform.yaml
    api_platform:
    mapping:
        paths:
            - '%kernel.project_dir%/vendor/sylius/sylius/src/Sylius/Bundle/ApiBundle/Resources/config/api_resources'
            - '%kernel.project_dir%/config/api_platform'
    patch_formats:
        json: ['application/merge-patch+json']
    swagger:
        versions: [3]

> And now if you want to customize any API resource you need copy entire configuration of this resource from ``%kernel.project_dir%/vendor/sylius/sylius/src/Sylius/Bundle/ApiBundle/Resources/config/api_resources/`` to ``%kernel.project_dir%/config/api_platform``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And now if you want to customize any API resource you need to copy the entire configuration of this resource from 
``%kernel.project_dir%/vendor/sylius/sylius/src/Sylius/Bundle/ApiBundle/Resources/config/api_resources/`` to ``%kernel.project_dir%/config/api_platform``
```

> How to add an additional endpoint to a resource?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How to add an additional endpoint?
```

================================================

> Let's assume that you want to add new endpoint to ``order`` which will dispatch a command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's assume that you want to add new endpoint to ``order`` resource which will dispatch a command.
```

> Let's assume that you want to add new endpoint to ``order`` which will dispatch a command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's assume that you want to add a new endpoint to the ``Order`` resource that will be dispatching a command.
```

You need to add proper configuration in ``config/api_platform/Order.xml``:

.. code-block:: xml

    <collectionOperations>
        <collectionOperation name="custom_operation">
            <attribute name="method">POST</attribute>

>             <attribute name="path">/shop/order/custom-operation</attribute>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            <attribute name="path">/shop/orders/custom-operation</attribute>
```

Well it is example and user can make it `order`, but we are using `orders` so I would stay with it 😄

            <attribute name="messenger">input</attribute>
            <attribute name="input">App\Command\CustomCommand</attribute>
        </collectionOperation>
    </collectionOperations>

> And that's all, now you have new endpoint with your custom logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And that's all, now you have a new endpoint with your custom logic.
```

.. tip::

    Read more about API Platform endpoint configuration `here <https://api-platform.com/docs/core/operations/>`_

> How to remove a resource endpoint?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How to remove an endpoint?
```

==================================

> Let's assume that your shop offer only digital products so you don't need setting shipment method at all.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's assume that your shop offers only digital products so you don't need to setup shipment method at all.
```

> Let's assume that your shop offer only digital products so you don't need setting shipment method at all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's assume that your shop is offering only digital products. Therefore, while checking out, 
your customers do not need to choose a shipping method for their orders. 

Thus you will need to modify the configuration file of the ``Order`` resource and remove the shipping method choosing endpoint from it.
```

> To remove endpoint you only need to delete unnecessary configuration from ``config/api_platform/Order.xml``

Reviewer 2: Is this sentence true? I mean we have some underlying logic that changes states of cart and checkout. Speaking of endpoint only POV, well we can just remove the endpoint and go drink some margarita 🍸 , but I don't think we can finish checkout process 🙁

Author: yes, but actually no :D
if you have only one shipping method and enabled option `Skip shipping step if only one shipping method is available?` on the channel, while checkout you don't need to set shipping method :)
you can check how it works on UI :)

> To remove endpoint you only need to delete unnecessary configuration from ``config/api_platform/Order.xml``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To remove the endpoint you only need to delete the unnecessary configuration from your
``config/api_platform/Order.xml`` which is a copied configuration file, that overwrites the one from Sylius.
```

> 

Reviewer: I think you could add a snippet of which lines have to be removed here. Or how the whole file would look like with the config removed, if it's not too long, or you can show just the neighboring lines of the section you'd be removing.

> How to rename the resource endpoint's path?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How to rename an endpoint's path?
```

===========================================

> If you want to change endpoint's path, only what you need to do is change ``path`` attribute in your config:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to change endpoint's path, you need to change the ``path`` attribute in your config only:
```

> If you want to change endpoint's path, only what you need to do is change ``path`` attribute in your config:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to change an endpoint's path, you just need to change the ``path`` attribute in your config:
```

.. code-block:: xml

    <itemOperations>
            <itemOperation name="admin_get">
                <attribute name="method">GET</attribute>
                <attribute name="path">/admin/orders/renamed-path/{id}</attribute>
            </itemOperation>
    </itemOperations>

> How to modify the endpoints prefixes? "shop" to "retail" rename.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How to modify the endpoints prefixes?
```

===============================================================

> Let's assume that you want to have your own prefixes on paths (for example to be more consistent with rest of your application)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's assume that you want to have your own prefixes on paths (for example to be more consistent with rest of your application).
```

> Let's assume that you want to have your own prefixes on paths (for example to be more consistent with rest of your application)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's assume that you want to have your own prefixes on paths (for example to be more consistent with the rest of your application).
```

> As a first step you need to change ``paths`` or ``route_prefix`` attribute in all needed resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the first step you need to change the ``paths`` or ``route_prefix`` attribute in all needed resources.
```
which are the `needed resources`? why not all?

> Next step is modify security configuration in ``config/packages/security.yaml``, you need to overwrite parameter:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next step is to modify security configuration in ``config/packages/security.yaml``, you need to overwrite parameter:
```

> Next step is modify security configuration in ``config/packages/security.yaml``, you need to overwrite parameter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step is to modify the security configuration in ``config/packages/security.yaml``, you need to overwrite the parameter:
```

.. code-block:: xml

    parameters:

>         sylius.security.new_api_shop_route: "%sylius.security.new_api_route%/retail"

Reviewer: Any ending sentence? :D

Customizing API
===============

We are using the API Platform to create all endpoints in Sylius API.
API Platform allows configuring an endpoint by ``yaml`` and ``xml`` files or by annotations.
In this guide, you will learn how to customize Sylius API endpoints using ``xml`` configuration.

How to prepare project for customization?

> ========================================

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=========================================
```

            <attribute name="messenger">input</attribute>
            <attribute name="input">App\Command\CustomCommand</attribute>
        </collectionOperation>
    </collectionOperations>

And that's all, now you have a new endpoint with your custom logic.

.. tip::

    Read more about API Platform endpoint configuration `here <https://api-platform.com/docs/core/operations/>`_

How to remove an endpoint?
==========================

Let's assume that your shop is offering only digital products. Therefore, while checking out,
your customers do not need to choose a shipping method for their orders.

Thus you will need to modify the configuration file of the ``Order`` resource and remove the shipping method choosing endpoint from it.
To remove the endpoint you only need to delete the unnecessary configuration from your ``config/api_platform/Order.xml`` which is a copied configuration file, that overwrites the one from Sylius.

.. code-block:: xml

    <!-- delete this configuration -->
    <itemOperation name="shop_select_shipping_method">
        <!-- ... -->
    </itemOperation>

How to rename an endpoint's path?

> ===========================================

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=================================
```

If you want to change an endpoint's path, you just need to change the ``path`` attribute in your config:

.. code-block:: xml

    <itemOperations>
            <itemOperation name="admin_get">
                <attribute name="method">GET</attribute>
                <attribute name="path">/admin/orders/renamed-path/{id}</attribute>
            </itemOperation>
    </itemOperations>

How to modify the endpoints prefixes?
=====================================

Let's assume that you want to have your own prefixes on paths (for example to be more consistent with the rest of your application).
As the first step you need to change the ``paths`` or ``route_prefix`` attribute in all needed resources.
The next step is to modify the security configuration in ``config/packages/security.yaml``, you need to overwrite the parameter:

.. code-block:: xml

    parameters:
        sylius.security.new_api_shop_route: "%sylius.security.new_api_route%/retail"

.. warning::

>     Changing prefixed without security configuration update can expose confidential data (like customers addresses)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Changing prefix without security configuration update can expose confidential data (like customers addresses)
```
?

Customizing API
===============

We are using the API Platform to create all endpoints in Sylius API.
API Platform allows configuring an endpoint by ``yaml`` and ``xml`` files or by annotations.
In this guide, you will learn how to customize Sylius API endpoints using ``xml`` configuration.

How to prepare project for customization?
=========================================

For any kind of customization firstly you need to configure directory with your configs.

.. code-block:: yaml

    # config/packages/api_platform.yaml
    api_platform:
    mapping:
        paths:
            - '%kernel.project_dir%/vendor/sylius/sylius/src/Sylius/Bundle/ApiBundle/Resources/config/api_resources'
            - '%kernel.project_dir%/config/api_platform'
    patch_formats:
        json: ['application/merge-patch+json']
    swagger:

>         versions: [3]

Reviewer 4: Can we provide this config in Sylius Standard?
